# ADR-001: Choosing A Backet Architecture for the Weather Forecast Api 

Status: Accepted
Date: 2025-06-08
Author: Kyrylo Haliamov

## Context 

The purpose of the project is to create a service that allows users to subscribe to the weather updates in the chosen city and receive it at a certain periodicity (Hourly / Daily). APIs are fully described in Swagger Document that cannot be changed. 

System Requirements: 
- REST API according to Swagger Contact. 
- Subscription support, email confirmation and regular updates. 
- Use of DBMS (Postgresql). 
- Migrations at start. 
- Support launch through Docker Compose. 
- The possibility of scaling. 
- High expansion, support for tests. 

## Options 

1. **Express.js + Sequelize + Postgresql** 
- Simplicity. 
- Fewer abstractions. 
- Less built-in support for structured architecture. 

2. **Nestjs + Typeorm + Postgresql** 
- structured architecture with modules, services and controllers. 
- Support of decorators and DI. 
- Clear test support. 
- Typeorm gives you the opportunity to make migration easily, works well with Postgresql. 

3. **FASTIFY + PRISMA** 
- Speed. 
- Simplicity. 
- Less built-in infrastructure for a large-scale project. 

## The decision is made 

Use **Nestjs** as the main frameworker, **TypeOrm** like ORM and **Postgresql** as a DBMS. 

## Reasons 

- Nestjs allows you to maintain clean architecture, modularity, testing. 
- Typeorm integrates with Nestjs and allows migration. 
- Postgresql is a powerful and stable open code. 
- Simple launch in Docker because of official images. 
- Wide documentation and community. 

## Consequences 

- The time of studying Nestjs and Typeorm for new developers is increasing. 
- Boillerplate code is increasing compared to Express. 
- However, the structure of the project will be scale and stable.